---
layout: post
title: "Post2"
date: 2020-10-24
excerpt: "A little on how this site was made"
image:
caption:
credit: 
---

## This Site
This site was created for free by me, with the use of [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/). GitHub Pages is GitHub's hosting platform, allowing you to create sites for yourself of for an individual repository. It's really easy to set up, and you can find out how [here](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/working-with-github-pages). Pages allows you to choose from a few pre-set themes that give your site a little more flair, or you could go and find a custom one that suits you, or go ahead and make one yourself! The custom theme that I'm using is called Massively, and you can find out more about it [here](https://github.com/jekyllup/jekyll-theme-massively). All of the themes use [Jekyll - a static site generator](https://jekyllrb.com/). You can use it to style your site using different layouts and pages based in what you'd expect (HTML, CSS, JavaScript), and add content by using different mark-up files. 

### Content
Content for each page is inside of a file containing a mark-up language. For example, I'm using markdown (.md) files. In each file, you must specify the attributes that will be used in the layout file. For example, in the [previous post](https://cameron-leech-thomson.github.io/blog/welcome-to-my-site/) I put up, the attributes look like this:
```markdown
    ---
    layout: post
    title: "Welcome to My Site!"
    date:   2020-10-21
    excerpt: "This is the first post on my shiny new portfolio site!"
    image: "/images/post1.jpg"
    caption: "Photo by Ilya Pavlov on Unsplash"
    credit: "https://unsplash.com/photos/OqtafYT5kTw?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditShareLink"
    ---
```
The attributes here are accessed in a HTML file, and then used to fill the slots for various pieces of content. The main bulk of writing done in a post is done after the "---".

### Layouts
Each layout is just a HTML file, that creates the setting for the content. To pull the information from the mark-up files, you'd access it like this:
Say you're after the markdown attribute 'title' in:
```markdown
    title: "Post Title"
```
Which you're trying to put in the main header for your page. You'd set the HTML up like this:
```html
    <header>
        <h1 class = "title">{{page.title}}</h1>
    </header>
```
In this instance, the call "{{page.title}}" is where you retrieve the title of the page itself.